---
layout: post
title: grpn 1.2 and 1.3 released
---

I am proud to announce the immediate availability of grpn 1.2 and 1.3, the best 
(IMHO) Groupon&#0153; client for WebOS. Releases for versions 1.2 and 1.3 came about
a week apart so they have been rolled into a single post here. There have been 
many updates to the app since the 1.0 release several months ago including:

* Sharing via MMS and Email - You can now share the awesome Groupon deals with
your friends with a tap of your finger. Simply select the "sharing" menu in the
lower left of the screen and go. (grpn v1.3.0)

* Groupon disccusions - You can now read all of the user generated discussion
points regarding each of the deals by tapping the button in the lower right
of your screen. (grpn v1.2.0)

* Groupon says - You can now read through all the interesting tidbits of information
Groupon gives provides their "Groupon Says" bubbles on their website. Simply 
open the application menu and select "Groupon says..." (grpn v1.2.0)

* Release notes - You can now read through all of the release notes for each
new grpn release. Select "release notes" from the application menu. (grpn v1.2.0)

* Number of groupons sold - You can now see how many of each Groupon has been sold,
if it is sold out, or how many more need to be purchased before getting the deal. 
(grpn v1.2.0 & v1.3.0)

* Numerous bug fixes and small enhancements.

I hope for all of you WebOS users out there (yeah, probably not too many of you)
find these changes useful. As Groupon adds more features to their API I will try
to implement them ASAP. For those interested, all of the code is open source and 
available at [http://github.com/staer/grpn](http://github.com/staer/grpn). Enjoy!